Add release announcement for 3.12 (#337)
pulp/pulpproject.org: _posts/2021-04-08-pulp-3.12-is-generally-available.md

---
title: Pulp 3.12.0 is Generally Available!
author: Melanie Corr
tags:
  - announcement
---

Let's take a look at the main updates and enhancements as part of this release.

This release also includes a plethora of bugfixes as well as some nice enhancements to Pulpcore and the Plugin API. For a full overview of changes, check out the [changlog](https://docs.pulpproject.org/pulpcore/changes.html).

## Support added for automatic publishing and distributing [#7626](https://pulp.plan.io/issues/7626)

> When the content of a repository is updated, the repository can now be automatically published and redestributed.

Reviewer: Should we mention, that this work needs to be picked up by upcoming plugin releases to be used?

Author: The fact that all the plugins have compatibility releases is a known fact, or you think I should be more specific? Doesn't this apply to all plugins and their ability to use enhancements in newer releases?

Reviewer: To me the announcement here sounds like "You can use autopublish on _all_ your repos _now_."
But in fact, this lays the groundwork for plugins to support autopublish/-distribute.
So for expectation management, i would add something like:
"Look out for upcoming plugin releases to add this feature to their repositories."

Author: OK this makes sense. Hope my rephrasing is adequate.

## New Checksum validation steps

Pulp can prohibit or allow checksums by setting the `ALLOWED_CONTENT_CHECKSUMS` setting.

As part of this release, a number of validation steps have been added to help to ensure that you can debug and manage content checksums that are synched as part of the on-demand sync process.

New documenation has been also added for the [ALLOWED_CONTENT_CHECKSUMS setting](https://docs.pulpproject.org/pulpcore/en/master/nightly/settings.html#allowed-content-checksums).

### Checking remote artifacts against ALLOWED_CONTENT_CHECKSUMS [#7985](https://pulp.plan.io/issues/7985)

A new warning has been added to the on-demand sync process to check if remote artifacts are detected with checksums that do not correspond with the `ALLOWED_CONTENT_CHECKSUMS`.

### New sync check for forbidden checksums [#8423](https://pulp.plan.io/issues/8423)

During a sync of on-demand content, a new check is performed and throws an error if forbidden checksums are detected.

> As part of [#7989](https://pulp.plan.io/issues/7989) more enhancements updates were made to handle the exception that gets raised on the client side.

Reviewer: Sounds very similar to me. Can we collapse those two issues into one announcement?

Author: Removed the headings and just kept the initial headline.

### New callback method for autopublishing [#7626](https://pulp.plan.io/issues/7626)

A new callback method ``on_new_version()`` has been added to ``Repository``. This runs when a new repository version has been created. You can use this method for automatically publishing or distributing the new repository version after it has been created.

### New logging options for ``DigestValidationError`` and ``SizeValidationError`` [#8357](https://pulp.plan.io/issues/8357)

A `url` option has been added as a possible argument to ``DigestValidationError`` and ``SizeValidationError`` exceptions, so that you can better locate the url of the requested files.

### A new Distribution MasterModel [#8384](https://pulp.plan.io/issues/8384)

This release provides a new MasterModel `pulpcore.plugin.models.Distribution` that replaces the BaseDistribution `pulpcore.plugin.models.BaseDistribution` model.
You will have to define a migration to move your data from `pulpcore.plugin.models.BaseDistribution` to `pulpcore.plugin.models.Distribution`. See the `pulp_file` migration 0009 as a reference example.[#8385](https://pulp.plan.io/issues/8385)

> This new model contains the `repository`, `repository_version`, and `publication` fields  instead of on the detail models as was done with `pulpcore.plugin.models.BaseDistribution`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This new model now contains the `repository`, `repository_version`, and `publication` fields that are supposed to move off of the detail models where they are located with `pulpcore.plugin.models.BaseDistribution`.
```

Author: @mdellweg what do you mean by supposed to? Does it or doesn't it?

Author: I added your sentence although I don't know what it means!

Reviewer: The plugin migration you are mentioning before is supposed to move those fields.

Author: Ah I understand this now. Are we good to go with this section at least?

* A new serializer `pulpcore.plugin.serializer.DistributionSerializer` has been added to use with `pulpcore.plugin.models.Distribution`.
* The viewset `pulpcore.plugin.viewset.DistributionViewSet`  replaces the deprecated `pulpcore.plugin.viewset.BaseDistributionViewSet`.
* The new `pulpcore.plugin.viewset.NewDistributionFilter` filter pairs with the `Distribution` model.

### Object deprecations as part of this change

|BaseDistribution object|Replaced by|
| --- | --- |
|`pulpcore.plugin.models.BaseDistribution` |`pulpcore.plugin.models.Distribution` |
|`pulpcore.plugin.viewset.BaseDistributionViewSet`|`pulpcore.plugin.viewset.DistributionViewSet` |
|`pulpcore.plugin.serializer.BaseDistributionSerializer`|`pulpcore.plugin.serializer.DistributionSerializer`|
|`pulpcore.plugin.serializer.PublicationDistributionSerializer`|`pulpcore.plugin.serializer.DistributionSerializer` |
|`pulpcore.plugin.serializer.RepositoryVersionDistributionSerializer` | Define the `publication` field directly on your detail distribution object.|
|`pulpcore.plugin.viewset.DistributionFilter` |`pulpcore.plugin.viewset.NewDistributionFilter`|

> |`pulpcore.plugin.tasking.enqueue_with_reservation` |`pulpcore.plugin.tasking.dispatch` |

Reviewer: This last deprecation is part of another change.
But i like the list being a table of deprecations for the entire release. So maybe adjust the headers instead.

Not sure how to add the "task arguments must be JSON serializable" deprecation into that table.

Author: Lol I will aim for that for lucky 3.13. I just removed this and wrote about it in the deprecations section. Thanks for catching this!
